The Platform is a movie about a vertical self-management
center, which is a fancy way of saying a prison
in the shape of a tower.
It’s not exactly a prison though, we’ll
come back to that.
Prisoners, I mean residents, are placed two
per level, for 333 levels.
At the core of the plot lies the platform,
which is loaded with a king’s feast worth
of food every day, enough to keep all 333
levels alive if rationed appropriately.
The platform is then sent down through a hole
in the center of the tower to the peasants,
level by level, top to bottom.
Every month the residents are randomly placed
on a different level.
You could be at the top 1 month, the bottom
the next month, or on the bottom 3 months
in a row.
As you can imagine, people at the top are
respectful and humble and ration food for
those below them, and those on the lower level
are grateful and respectful to those below
them as well.
Everyone on all levels only takes what they
need and are able to get enough calories and
protein to survive for that month as well
as enjoy a respectable morsel of dessert foods.
Just kidding, The VSC is a sadistic hellhole
that extracts and emphasizes the worst aspects
and temptations of human behavior.
People who find themselves at the top give
little crap for those below them, or a lot
in some cases..
They greedily consume as much as their bellies
can hold, and leave no food or dignity for
those below them, causing either suicide,
starvation, or cannabalism.
Why should they care for those below them,
as the lower class has no recourse (can’t
crap upwards).
And when the people on the top levels had
been on the lower levels, nobody spared them,
so why should they spare those who didn’t
spare them?
It’s a vicious cycle derived from the VSC’s
rules.
If you woke up tomorrow on floor 48 of the
tower of terror(?), what would you do, what
could you do?
In this video on Nerd Explains, I'll tell
you, 6 ways to beat The Platform.
First, what are the VSC’s rules:
1.
You can bring one item into the VSC, it could
be a knife, book, gun, rope, anything that
could fit into a carry-on luggage bag, there’s
no TSA checkpoint before entering the Vertical
Self-Management Center.
2.
You are randomly assigned to a floor level.
At the end of each month the administration
gasses you and you wake up at a new random
level.
3.
You are randomly assigned cell mates, and
unless your cellmate perishes, you stick with
them when moving floors.
4.
If your cellmate perishes, you won’t get
a new one until the start of the next month.
5.
Food is served once per day on a table-sized
concrete platform.
It theoretically carries enough food for most
levels if rationed correctly.
6.
If you try to hold or store any food after
the platform moves to the next level, the
administration will crank the thermostat knob
in either direction, either freezing you or
incinerating you.
7.
You can ride the platform down without consequence.
But we’re unsure about the ride up.
8.
Once the platform reaches the bottom, under
level 333, it rockets back to the top.
It would be a bad idea to try to catch a ride
on it as it’s going up.
9.
Besides all the above rules, pretty much anything
goes, including murder and cannabilization.
This is why you need to read the fine print
before signing up for things.
Okay so how do we beat this:
1.
Kill everyone else.
If everybody’s dead there can’t be a food
shortage.
Depending on how sociopathic you are, or how
long your sentence is.
This could be either your first or last option.
Actually, this is kind of what ended up happening
when Goreng and Baharat tried to enforce rationing.
When lunch time comes, hop on and ride the
platform down with sharpened pieces of bed
frame.
Every level you can go down, you’ll have
to eliminate two people.
Now here’s the deal, riding the platform
up is risky, as you don’t know if the platform
tops out at the tower ceiling turning you
into a pancake.
I’d avoid riding up for now.
So if you started at level 5, and killed everyone
from 5 down to 333 where you currently reside
for the month, you’ll still get the same
food as you would’ve on level 5.
Not much of an improvement.
But.
The next month if you find yourself on level
200, there will be a lot less people above
you eating the food, so you won’t starve.
Now if the VSC has a large backlog of applicants,
this will throw a giant wrench in the plan.
Imagine riding down the tower killing hundreds
of people, then relaxing on level 333 for
the rest of the month knowing that next month
if you’re on a bad level you’ll still
get all the food.
Then the next month you wake up on level 300,
normally you’d freak out because you’ll
get no food, but not this time.
You killed everyone else.
I’m sure they refilled some levels with
people as they normally do.
Lunchtime comes and you’re rubbing your
hands together and licking your lips, waiting
for that giant feast.
You hear the buzz and see the platform come
down.
Wait, what the fuck, where’s all the food.
I killed everyone, they couldn’t have refilled
hundreds of positions the next month.
I killed all those people for nothing.
No!
2.
Wait it out.
If you only have a few months in the hole
and you have some extra body fat, the probability
of surviving and getting out is okay.
Trying to buck the system will probably end
in your death.
That said, the longer your sentence, the chances
of death becomes extremely high.
In the movie it seems like the platform only
stays for a few minutes before moving on,
so all the calorie dense foods are going to
be gone quickly as people will be rushing
to stuff their face and get as many calories
in as possible before the platform moves.
If you are placed on floor 111 or lower you
get almost no food.
You effectively have only about a 30 percent
chance of being placed on a level that gives
you enough food to survive.
We know Goreng volunteered for six months
in exchange for a diploma, and Trimagasi had
a one year sentence.
If you have 6 months, that means six chances.
The average male weighs 190 at 5 foot 9 at
20 percent body fat.
Essential levels of body fat to survive is
around 5%.
That means the average person has about 25
pounds of fat, or about 90,000 calories they
can live off of without food.
Considering that same male will burn around
2000 calories every day just sitting around
in their cell.
This gives your average male 45 days without
food.
This means that if you are placed on level
111 or lower once you could survive, but twice
and you will starve.
So 6 coin tosses, we need 5 tosses to land
level 111 or above, as 2 tosses below 111
and we are dead.
The chances of us being placed above floor
111 for 5 out of 6 months is 1.09%.
Looks like solution number 1 isn’t so crazy.
In Trimagasi’s case, he had some extra weight,
so let’s say he could survive 3 months without
food.
He had a 12 month sentence so he’d need
9 months above level 111.
His chances of survival is .17 %. I’d say
he should get some lotto tickets after he
gets out, but that’s a hot hand fallacy,
oh and also he was stabbed to death.
3.
Ride the platform up.
If you are too weak, old, or sick to perform
solution number one, and your sentence is
longer than 3 months so solution number 2
is out, then take the risk of being pancaked
and ride the platform down then back up.
You could be murdered on the way down, but
you don’t have many options here.
4.
Don’t volunteer to do 6 months in a place
that you know is called the hole.
There are references in the movie from characters
having some knowledge about this facility,
and what it’s called.
Baharat brought rope indicating he knew the
layout to some degree.
Others brought guns and swords indicating
they knew it was a dangerous place to be.
If you didn’t know much or couldn’t verify
the conditions you’d be placed in, that
is a bad sign.
If you know it’s called the hole, don’t
volunteer.
Your diploma is not worth it.
5.
If you generally knew what the hole was and
were stupid enough to sign up anyways or you
were sentenced, what could you bring to help
you survive your sentence.
Well a weapon would help with solution number
1.
Considering you’d potentially need to kill
hundreds of people, you’d probably want
to pick a reusable weapon like a sword instead
of a firearm.
Unless you could carry a bunch of ammo.
If you could carry a .22 pistol with a brick
of 500-1000 rounds which isn’t that large,
you could eliminate everyone in the VSC multiple
times over.
Food could help with solution number 2 depending
on how much you could bring, though you wouldn’t
be able to bring enough food in a carry-on
to help you survive more than an extra month.
In a six month sentence, an extra month of
food would raise your chances of survival
from 1.09 % to 7.05%.
Ropes, grappling hooks, extendable ladders,
etc., are all dependent on the people above
you to work, which makes them ineffective.
To be honest, I can’t think of much you
could bring in a carry-on that would help
much.
Let me know in the comments if you have any
ideas!
6.
Climb up.
But how, the chances that multiple levels
of people would help you up is insane.
Here is a possible idea.
Fashion a rope out of the bed sheets and clothes,
and tie a huge knot at the end.
Once the platform is about to stop at the
level above you, throw the rope up.
It will get wedged at the top by the platform.
The people above will be too preoccupied eating
as much as they can to notice.
Then climb up the rope with a weapon.
Once the platform starts to lower, quickly
climb on top of the platform and then jump
to the level above you.
If you have a trustworthy cellmate like Baharat
this would help.
Kill those above as they will probably be
mad they have to share food with you and will
sabotage your strategy like crabs in a bucket.
Rinse and repeat for every floor above you.
You do have to be within 30 floors of the
top, because the platform only comes down
once per day, and you have 30 days before
being randomly assigned to a new floor.
If you make it to the top and they gas and
place you back in the hole, revisit solution
number 1.
Those are my 6 potential solutions for how
to beat the platform.
Do you agree or disagree with my solutions?
Let me know in the comments!
If you enjoyed this video, why not subscribe
and make sure you always get the new videos
coming out.
I’ll be doing more videos on how to survive
and beat different situations like this from
movies or games.
Thanks for watching!